---
title: "Using Spaces to generate Images from Claude" 
thumbnail: /blog/assets/building-hf-mcp/building-hf-mcp.png
authors:
- user: evalstate
---

TODO:: ADD THUMBNAIL


# Use Spaces to generate Images from Claude

> [!TIP]
> **TL;DR:** Its easier than ever to generate detailed pictures using the latest AI models - by connecting Claude to Hugging Face Spaces. This article describes how, why, and introduces recently launched models which excel at producing natural images and including text. 

## Introduction

Recent advances in Image Generation models have improved their ability to produce realistic outputs, follow precise instructions and incorporate high quality text. These latest models  are now easier than ever to access by connecting them to Claude. 

The advantages of using generating pictures using AI tools like Claude are:
 - Building detailed prompts that improve the output quality of generated images. 
 - The AI can "see" the generate image, and can then iterate on designs and techniques to get perfect results.

To get started, create a free [Hugging Face account](https://huggingface.co/join), then connect Claude to Hugging Face. The below video shows the exact steps needed:

<figure class="image flex flex-col items-center text-center m-0 w-full">
    <video
       alt="claude-auth-flow.mp4"
       autoplay loop autobuffer muted playsinline
     >
     <source src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/claude-images-mcp/claude-auth-flow.mp4" type="video/mp4">
   </video>
  <figcaption>Conneting Claude to Hugging Face</figcaption>   
 </figure>



Make sure that the Hugging Face connector is enabled, and . 

Now, let's look at a couple of recent models and why you should use them:

## Non-AI Aesthetic Flux Krea Dev

[FLUX.1 Krea [dev]](https://huggingface.co/black-forest-labs/FLUX.1-Krea-dev) aims to eliminate the telltale "AI look" that often plague generated images - for example plastic skin, oversaturated colors, or overly smooth textures. If you want images that look like they were shot by a professional photographer rather than generated by a computer, Krea delivers the realistic textures, natural lighting, and authentic aesthetics that other AI models struggle with. You can read more about how they did this [on their blog](https://www.krea.ai/blog/flux-krea-open-source-release).

To try **Krea**, go to [`huggingface.co/mcp/settings`](https://huggingface.co/settings/mcp) and add `evalstate/flux1-krea` to your "Spaces Tools". This will enable the `flux1_krea_dev_infer` tool (the exact name may be different depending on your configuration). You can then prompt Claude to generate beautiful, realistic looking images.  


## Qwen Image

[Qwen-Image](https://huggingface.co/Qwen/Qwen-Image) is a powerful AI image generator that excels at creating images with accurate text rendering, making it ideal for designing posters, signs, infographics, and marketing materials where text quality matters. 

Add `evalstate/qwen-image` from your MCP Servers setting page, then make sure it is enabled in Claude to start using. Read more about the Qwen-Image model from their [blog post](https://qwenlm.github.io/blog/qwen-image/).



## Conclusion

You can keep both Image Generators enabled, and even have Claude prompt both simultaneously to compare the outputs. 



Hugging Face Spaces paired with the Claude Connectors gives you access to the very latest AI models - often on the day of launch. 




MCP is rapidly evolving, and we're excited about what has already been achieved across Chat Applications, IDEs, Agents and MCP Servers over the last few months.

We can already see how powerful integrating the Hugging Face Hub has been and support for Gradio Spaces now makes it possible for LLMs to be easily extended with the latest [Machine Learning applications](https://huggingface.co/blog/gradio-mcp-servers).